---
layout: post
title: "Sublime Text: (Insert superlative here)"
date: 2015-08-12T12:00-04:00
---


There are purists that would have you believe that programming is something best done with a plain text editor, Vim, and/or the command line, and they are (for the most part) absolutely correct. However, for those that are *not* purists, (insofar as not respecting that particular aesthetic) there are very powerful and flexible tools available. One such tool is Sublime Text. To be clear, I think that programmers *should* be able to get by with nothing but a plain text editor and the command line. When not "in the field," on my own computer, I like to have a bit more of a personalized experience.


----

#### Reasons for my choosing Sublime Text

This will seem silly to the more seasoned among you, but one of my first reasons for choosing Sublime Text was syntax highlighting of many languages. This comes in handy when you're handed a program written in Fortran on your first day of graduate research (having only heard of Fortran referred to jokingly up to this point) and have no idea how to pick it apart. Now Sublime Text doesn't have the built-in ability to syntax highlight Fortran, but it only took about five minutes and a Google search to configure it to do so. That is one prominent feature of Sublime Text, possibly *the* feature: its customizability/configurability.

I also chose Sublime Text because of something called "Package Control." Package Control is a repository for—you guessed it—packages that can be installed within Sublime Text to augment its capabilities. It is incredibly easy to set up (again, a single Google search turns up everything you need to know) and to use once it is installed. An example of a package in Package Control is "MarkdownEditing" which is not-so-coincidentally what I am writing this post with. There are also "Themes" and "Color Schemes" to download; this adds another layer of that "personal touch" to the editor (I'll share some of my favorite packages, themes, and color schemes later). All of this is maintained by a very active community of contributors.

The bottom line is that Sublime Text is exactly what I wanted from a programming text editor. I have even developed a weird sense of pride in my configuration because I think it is a reflection of how I work and huge contributor to my workflow.

A critique of this post may be that I haven't discussed the fact that Sublime Text isn't free, so let's take care of that: it's not free. You can download the editor for free and use its full capabilities, but you will occasionally be reminded that your copy is "UNREGISTERED". It costs 70 dollars for a personal license that you can install on any computer you own, for personal use. I took into consideration that those 70 dollars were going to help develop this wonderful piece of software, so I decided to buy a license. However, that may not be the case for everyone and there are other options, my favorite of which I will mention later.

----

#### Some of my favorite features

- Multiple edit
    + You can actually select multiple spots in your code and batch edit several lines at a time. When combined with a robust "Find/Find All" function, this can save a lot of time.
- Build systems
    + It is possible to create your very own "Build systems," which are files that specify a way to compile, build, and even execute source code files in any way you see fit. This is very nice for prototyping some of the programs I write for my thesis research because I would have to use the same commands over and over (and over) in a terminal rather than just a single keystroke in Sublime Text.
- Snippets
    + These little buggers are things that you would have to type repeatedly from memory were it not for the "Snippets" in Sublime Text. For example, to insert a figure with a caption in Markdown, I made a little snippet that types out the relevant HTML so *I don't have to*. I just type "ffigure", hit the Tab key, and I'm off to the races.
- Multiple panes
    + You can have two files open simultaneously, alongside one another (or three, four, etc. in various arrangements). This is nice if I'm using one file as a reference for another or if one is the header and the other on of the source code files.
- The settings
    + The user-configurable settings are easy to access and you can change just about anything about how Sublime Text looks and behaves from these settings.

These are really just a few of the capabilities, but they are some of my most frequently utilized.

----

#### Some of my favorite packages and themes

Packages:

- Markdown Editing
- Markdown Preview
- Terminal
- Alignment
- Bracket Highlighter
- SFTP

Themes:

- Seti UI
- Freesia
- Brogrammer

----

#### My current Preferences configuration

It's pretty minimal, but it gets the job done.

    {
        "bold_folder_labels": true,
        "color_scheme": "Packages/Seti_UI/Scheme/Seti_orig.tmTheme",
        "font_face": "InputMonoCondensed",
        "font_options": "subpixel_antialias",
        "font_size": 10,
        "highlight_line": true,
        "highlight_modified_tabs": true,
        "ignored_packages":
        [
            "Markdown",
            "Vintage"
        ],
        "theme": "Seti.sublime-theme"
    }

----

#### My other favorite (free) text editor: Notepad++

Notepad++ is free and frequently updated. It has some of the same potential for augmentation as Sublime Text and is lauded as being the best (which is why I'm not belaboring the point here). The only quibble I have consistently read about Notepad++ is that it is "not pretty," to which I say "Who honestly cares?" Vim, Gedit, and other text editors aren't absolutely visually stunning; that's not why we use them (end short rant).

----

#### Closing remarks

If you're in the market for a great (premium) programming text editor that is as powerful as it is fun to tweak, Sublime Text is for you. I think it would be safe to say that I haven't gone a solid day without using it in the last two years (which I'm just now realizing might be a little sad).
